Tekken 7 (??7) is a fighting game developed and published by Bandai Namco Entertainment. It is the seventh installment in the Tekken series (ninth overall), also it is the final chapter of The Mishima Saga Story and was the first to make use of the Unreal Engine. Tekken 7 had a limited arcade release in March 2015. An updated arcade version, Tekken 7: Fated Retribution, was released in July 2016, and features expanded content including new stages, costumes, items and characters.[1] The same version was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in June 2017.[2]

Set shortly after the events of Tekken 6, the plot focuses on the events leading up to the final battle between martial artist Heihachi Mishima and his son, Kazuya. Tekken 7 introduces several new elements to the fighting system such as Rage Arts and the Power Crush mechanic, making the game more beginner friendly than previous iterations in the series. Tekken 7 was a critical and commercial success, selling over five million copies by December 2019.


Tekken 7 focuses on 1v1 battles.[3] New features to the gameplay include:

Rage Art: A critical move unique to each character and only accessible while in Rage mode, causing it to deactivate until the next round. If the initial attack hits the opponent, it will trigger a cinematic sequence and deal roughly 30% damage, depending on the character.
Power Crush: Performs an attack that can absorb an opponent's hits with the Mid or High property and continue attacking.[4]
Screw hits: This largely replaces the Bound mechanic, which added significant opportunity to perform long, high-damage combos, by knocking an opponent hit with a launcher back to the ground into a vulnerable state. Screw hits have similar applications as Bounding moves, but the receiving opponent's animation is altered, putting them into an aerial tailspin (i.e. a "screw") as they fall to the ground. Unlike the Bound, Screw hits cannot be used to do wall combos.
With a new display system, the game's multiplayer allows players to choose which side of the screen to play on.[5] Movement has undergone some changes and is similar to the movement mechanics found in Tekken Revolution, most notably when characters walk backwards. The arcade version features the traditional stage-based playthrough, in which the player progresses by beating five different opponents one by one, ending with a fixed penultimate and final stage. Matches may be interrupted if another player joins the game. Online mode is available for both local and international play. Character customization is featured, allowing the player to modify characters' appearances.[6] For the first time in the arcade series, the game features a practice mode, which allows players to train moves against an opponent for a limited amount of time, as well as an option to collect in-game rewards, mainly customization items, through "Treasure Box" by winning enough matches.

The Fated Retribution update for arcades adds further gameplay changes.

Rage Drive: Most characters have one or more Rage Drive moves, which are either brand new moves or powered-up variations of existing moves. Like the Rage Art, it requires sacrificing their Rage mode for the round, trading the severe damage of the Rage Art for a move with less risk and different utility.
Rage Art was also adjusted so that the amount of damage dealt to the enemy is inversely proportional to the player's current health bar.
Among several new and returning characters, the update introduced Akuma, the first of several additional characters utilizing their own unique mechanics which follow the gameplay conventions of the 2D fighting games he originates from, including:

Cancelling successful or blocked attacks with special moves
Different jump physics and air attacks which can be used more offensively than the Tekken series' standard jump attacks
A Super Combo meter which builds up as the fight progresses, and is spent in order to use "EX" versions of special moves and Super Combo moves
Lacking some of Tekken 7's own gameplay mechanics like the Rage Drive and 10-hit combo moves.
Two other characters added as downloadable content (DLC) after the release of the home versions of the game would include very similar fighting mechanics, those characters being Eliza and Geese Howard. Another guest character, Noctis, has more standard Tekken gameplay but can perform jump-in attacks like the "2D" characters.

Updates to the arcade and home versions also added moves applying a Wall Bound hit state for all characters. Initially, only Geese Howard was able to perform moves inflicting the wall bound state, but the Season 2 update added the mechanic for every character.[7]

Tekken Bowl, a bowling minigame which debuted in Tekken Tag Tournament was added in the first season of additional DLC content.[8]

Plot
After the events of Tekken 6, though Azazel was destroyed by Jin Kazama, the war between the Mishima Zaibatsu and G Corporation continues to ravage the world. The game's story is told from the perspective of a reporter whose wife and son are killed in the crossfire, leading him to begin writing an exposé on the Mishima Zaibatsu and G Corporation. Nina Williams leads the Zaibatsu in Jin's absence, attempting to locate him, but Heihachi Mishima takes advantage of the vacuum of power and forces Nina to work for him, regaining control of the Zaibatsu. Heihachi makes a deal with Claudio Serafino, head of the powerful Sirius Marksmen organization, to help him expose his son, G Corporation head Kazuya Mishima, believing public opinion will shift in the Zaibatsu's favor if Kazuya's Devil Gene is revealed. Claudio senses a powerful force in the Far East that is unconnected to either Jin or Kazuya.

The reporter researches the Mishima family history, learning that Heihachi's coup against his father Jinpachi and the death of his wife Kazumi both occurred in the same year he threw his son Kazuya into a ravine. Meanwhile, the United Nations intelligence group has located Jin, but he evades capture long enough to be rescued by his half-uncle Lars Alexandersson. Lars takes Jin to recuperate at Violet Systems, where Jin's adoptive uncle Lee Chaolan has repaired Alisa Bosconovitch following her seemingly permanent shutdown in the previous game. The Zaibatsu attacks the compound, but the trio is able to secure Jin. The reporter, having rendezvoused with Lee and Lars, tries to kill Jin in his sleep, but is discouraged by Lars, who says Jin is the only person capable of stopping the conflict. According to Lee, the reason behind Heihachi fathering Lars was to confirm that he did not possess the Devil Gene, proving it originated from the Hachijos, Kazumi's family.

The force sensed by Claudio is eventually revealed to be Akuma, who made a promise to Kazumi that he would kill Heihachi and Kazuya if she fails to, as she predicted both of them would engulf the world in war and destruction. He defeats Heihachi after their temporary alliance on fending off an attack by an army of Jack-6's at the Mishima Dojo, and proceeds to G Corporation's Millennium Tower. Heihachi survives but declares himself dead to the public to continue his plans in secret. He then captures and spreads images of a transformed Kazuya worldwide before using an orbital laser weapon to obliterate Millennium Tower. Kazuya survives the attack and destroys the satellite, with the wreckage destroying a town and once again slandering the Zaibatsu. The reporter uses this opportunity to inform the Zaibatsu about his exposé, but to his surprise, Heihachi offers to meet him in person. Heihachi recounts his love of Kazumi and the night he learned that she possessed the Devil Gene and was sent by her family to kill him, regretfully being forced to kill her in self-defense, which eventually marked the feud amongst the Mishima clansmen as of the present. Suspecting that Kazuya had inherited the Devil Gene, Heihachi threw him off a cliff, believing the boy's survival would confirm his fears. Heihachi has the reporter escorted out back to Lars before traveling to a volcano for a final battle with Kazuya. Vengeful over his parents' betrayals, with Heihachi being the one who never told him about Kazumi's assassinations on them before her death in the first place, Kazuya finally kills Heihachi in battle and throws his body into the volcano. Moments later, Akuma appears and attacks Kazuya; the result of their battle is unknown.

In the aftermath, Jin awakes and meets up with Lee, Lars, and Alisa, promising to put an end to the war once and for all by killing Kazuya. The reporter, reflecting on all he has learned, completes and publishes his exposé.

Characters
See also: List of Tekken characters
The game has 52 playable characters (including palette swaps), 20 of whom make up the default cast on launch; other characters are to be added over time. Ten make their debut in this version, along with a new form of Jack, and four guest characters from Capcom's and SNK's fighting game franchises, Square Enix's Final Fantasy, and Image Comics' The Walking Dead.[9][10][11]

New characters

Promotional model of Lucky Chloe, one of the game's new characters, at IgroMir 2016
Akuma c d: The dark master of the Satsui no Hado from Capcom's Street Fighter, added in Fated Retribution. Within the story, Kazumi asks him to repay a debt to her by killing Heihachi and Kazuya. The player can fight him in place of Kazumi as the final boss if a certain condition is met.[12]
Claudio Serafino: A white-clad man from Italy who is a member of an Anti-Devil organization combating the Devil Gene's threat. Empowered with Sirius magic.[4]
Fahkumram c g: Fahkumram is a tall, tattooed, strong and muscular man from Thailand. He is a legendary Muay Thai champion fighting to free his captive wife & daughter held hostage by corrupt officials.[13]
Geese Howard c d g: The crime boss of South Town from SNK's fighting game series Fatal Fury, The King of Fighters and Art of Fighting, added to the console version as post-launch downloadable content. His fighting style is hakkyokuseiken. Geese was the second most requested character in a fan poll on Harada's Twitter account.[14][15][16]
Gigas a: A hulking, red-skinned humanoid who appears to have cybernetics attached to his otherwise nude body. He uses destructive impulse to pummel his opponents. He was discovered in leaked arcade data before his official reveal by Bandai Namco.[17]
Jack-7 a: A new model of the Jack series, he has a slightly modified design with red hair and green glowing arms. As with the previous Jack series, he uses brute force to pummel his opponents.
Josie Rizal a: A young Filipina woman who wears a yellow top, a blue miniskirt, and a red bow. She practices eskrima and kickboxing.[18] Like Gigas, she was first discovered in leaked arcade data[19] before being officially revealed during a Tekken 7 broadcast on Niconico on March 29, 2015.